---
title: Auth Overview
nextjs:
  metadata:
    title: Auth Overview
    description: Learn about the authentication and authorization features in staarter.dev.
---

Authentication and authorization are essential components of any web application. In staarter.dev, we provide a robust authentication system that includes user registration, login, and password recovery features. Additionally, we offer OAuth provider integrations for social login and two-factor authentication (2FA) support.

## User Authentication

The user authentication system in staarter.dev is built on top of [Lucia](https://lucia-auth.com/), a secure and flexible session management library. Lucia provides a simple API for managing user sessions. By leveraging Lucia, you can ensure that your application is secure and compliant with best practices for user authentication.

### Features

The user authentication system in staarter.dev includes the following features:

- **User Registration**: Users can sign up for an account by providing their email address and password. The registration process includes email verification to ensure that the user's email address is valid.
- **User Login**: Registered users can log in to their account using their email address and password. Upon successful login, users receive a session token that allows them to access protected resources.
- **Passwordless Authentication**: Users can sign in without entering a password by clicking on a magic link sent to their email address. Passwordless authentication provides a seamless and secure login experience.
- **Password Recovery**: Users can reset their password by requesting a password reset link.
- **Two-Factor Authentication (2FA)**: Users can enable two-factor authentication for an extra layer of security when signing in. 2FA requires users to enter a verification code generated by an authenticator app.
- **OAuth Providers**: staarter.dev includes built-in support for Google and Facebook OAuth providers. Users can sign in using their Google or Facebook account, providing a convenient and secure login experience.
